>> Scott Moss: I'm gonna
check out to lesson six.
And then inside of here, if you go to
modules, query.js, back into this file.
Basically, what you are gonna be doing,
is your gonna be trying to get
the test to pass for the query.
So if you run the test right now,
>> Scott Moss: You should get some failing
test for the query, they're uncommented
now, should be four of them.
Two of them are already passing,
cuz they're very naive tests.
But four of them are failing,
and we need to get them to pass.
And we also need to make sure the ones
that are passing are not falsely passing,
which I'm sure they are right now.
So basically,
what you're gonna do is you're gonna
come in here inside of this controller.
>> Scott Moss: The controller object.
And you're gonna create the appropriate
database calls for each action.
I didn't show you how to do this yet, so
we're gonna walk through some examples
of each single one to show you
how to use it with Mongoose.
So let's talk about that for a minute.
Let's just go, let me see,
that's a document, that's a document,
that's a document, that's a model.
Okay, cool, let's do this.
I'm just gonna come down here,
blank canvas.
>> Scott Moss: And
let's talk about using a model and
getting a document from the database.
And all the different ways we
can do that using Mongoose.
So let's say, I have a model in Mongoose,
and in our case a model is a song,
a user, or a playlist.
Those are the only models we have, right?
So let's just say we have a song, okay?
I can use that song model,
and let's say I have an id.
I have an id from the parameter, and I
want to find the song with that given id.
Using Mongoose, I can say, song.findById.
I could pass in that id like that.
This is gonna return a promise.
By default Mongoose uses their
own implementation of promises.
I converted it to use the native promises,
so
whatever the native promise
has you have here, right?
But actually what happens,
is this thing actually returns
a query what's called a monologue.
Come back.
It actually returns a mongo query
object which has a promise on it.
A query object, we'll talk briefly about
it, but we won't really use it here.
This allows you to drill down your query,
kinda like SQL where you're like,
I wanna findById, really,
you wouldn't need a query.
But let's say you did a generic find.
I wanna find all songs
where created at was this.
If this is regex is true, the exact text
match, this, that's the query objects.
You wanna drill down on it.
We're not gonna do that right now.
So findById's pretty simple.
But if you just want the pure promise,
you can just go ahead and call it .exec,
I recommend doing that.
This means execute the query,
that's what that means.
So if you put .exec on anything
that starts with find, so for
instance song.findById, and
then put .exec after that means there's
no more query coming out there.
For instance,
I can come here and say .where,
.limit,
>> Scott Moss: .whatever.
When I do .exec, that means there's
nothing else coming out there,
that's what that means.
It means execute this query,
give me the promise.
Because I'm not doing any query here, I'm
just gonna jump straight to execute.exec.
This returns a promise, and
you can probably just go ahead,
asynch await it, so
I have a song here, there you go.
So that would be a song.
>> Scott Moss: If you've never used
async await, don't worry about it,
just use a promise.
If you're just like, what is that?
It's cool, you can use promises,
it's totally the same thing.
I just like to use async await,
cuz it's legit.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's how you find one by id.
Let's say, we want to find one,
not by an id, but by name.
So we'd say, Song.findOne.
And then we'd pass in
the query that we want.
So we wanna findOne whose
name equals thisname.
>> Scott Moss: That would give us that,
and then we could also call .exec.
And that's you would findOne by name.
Or whatever property you wanna pass in
here, whatever thing you wanna search by.
But note, when you created your schema
you didn't create any indexes by default.
So when you start thinking about
how you wanna search for data,
this is just a data modeling thing.
Make sure you're creating indexes on
things you wanna search to keep your
queries fast.
If you know anything about indexes and
databases,
it's basically just a place where
the database references properties and
values so
they can look them up faster, right?
It's like a constant
time to look up almost.
It's a difference between
having an array or an object.
An object is constant time, right?
It goes straight there
whereas an array is linear.
So the bigger the array,
the longer it's gonna take to search.
Constant time is O1 so
it'll get it instantly
>> Scott Moss: So you got that.
Let's say you wanted to create a song,
all right, so many ways you can do that.
But my favorite way is
to use Song.create and
then pass in the object that
satisfies the song schema, right?
So you can just do that.
You can also do something like this.
>> Scott Moss: You can say,
new Song and then you pass that in.
And then afterwards you would
have to call save to save it.
>> Scott Moss: That's how you create.
And then, let's say you wanted to update.
You could say Song.findOneAndUpdate.
>> Scott Moss: You pass in
the thing you wanna find by.
I wanna find the one with thisname,
and I wanna update it with
a new name called othername.
Then I'm gonna pass in these
options called new: true.
New: true is important, it just means
return the new updated document
from this query, and
not the one before I updated it.
If you don't put new: true it will give
you the old one before you updated it.
If you put new: true it will give
it to you after it updated it.
That's probably what you want.
You probably wanna get
it after you updated it.
So you gotta do new: true.
I don't know why that's not a default.
I don't know why you would
never not want that.
But, yeah, so
that's how you find one and update.
You can also do, as you probably guessed,
findByIdAndUpdate.
And you just pass on the id in here,
instead of an object.
>> Speaker 2: The freeze and the findBy
param we always just be finding and
updating later?
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
the next one is because, like you said,
you're gonna be finding by param.
So the param's gonna find it, and
it's gonna pass the document
along to the request object.
So you need a way to update it, right?
So the way you would do that is,
all this was model level stuff.
Let me just label that.
This is all model level stuff.
But I also can do the model.
The updating stuff, like you're talking
about, that's document level, and
that's what we're gonna talk about next.
So once you already have a document, as
in from the params, then you can do this.
So once you already have a document,
like for instance, we have song,
song is a document, here it is right here.
What we can do is you can call .save on
that if you want, and that will save it.
So for instance if you had a song,
you already have this song right here.
And you're like you know
what your name is now this.
Your name = whatever this is now.
And I wanna call song.save, and
it's gonna save in database.
This is async so you can await this.
This also returns a promise.
So that would give you the new song.
So you basically just attach
the properties you want to it.
You can do merge, you can do whatever you
want, and then whenever you call .save,
that's gonna issue
the right to the database.
Because this actual object you get
back is not just a regular object,
it's a reference to
a document that is live.
It's a live reference.
It's not a JSON thing.
If you want this to JSON you would have
to call .lean, which turns it to JSON.
Or when you get it back you don't have to
say song.to JSON or to object to cover it.
But by default it's gonna be an actual
live document that has a save method
on it, a remove method on it,
a populate method on it.
It will have all those methods on it
that it can use to act on itself.
>> Scott Moss: So that's how you would
save an already gathered document,
you would just call .save on it.
So that's a document level thing,
so you'll hit song.save,
>> Scott Moss: Right, so you're gonna use,
let me see is there anything
else you might use in here.
You also have findOne and
remove, findById and remove.
>> Scott Moss: And yeah,
that's pretty much it, and this works for
every single model in our database, right?
It's all the same, so
it doesn't really matter.
So you're gonna take this.
What we learn here about finding one,
creating, finding one and
update, removing, populating.
And we're gonna fill out this stuff.
So for instance, let's just walk
through create one together.
So createOne, takes a model, takes a body.
Judging by those two things,
what do you think we need to do?
>> Speaker 3: Model.create,
model.create, hit return.
>> Scott Moss: Right, exactly, so
we're gonna return model.create
which returns a promise.
And what do I wanna create?
The body, exactly, that's it.
You don't have to call .exec on create.
.exec is for
anything that starts off with find.
So that's how you would create one.
You just called model.create and
you pass in a body, done.
So updateOne, notice the name of
the arguments, updateOne has a document,
it does not have a model.
This is a document.
We talked about how to
update documents down here.
>> Scott Moss: You put the properties on,
you hit save.
You can do a mix in, whatever you want.
Put those properties on there,
you save it.
So notice that deleteOne
is also a document.
Documents know how to remove themselves,
remember that.
But I don't think
the .remove returns itself.
I don't know,
can't remember how to figure that out.
Document ToGet,
the reason we're gonna do this right
now because it's a trick question.
You just literally just return
the same thing and a promise so
we can satisfy the promise API.
It's cuz the document's already there.
It's literally already there.
This is just here,
just in case, like I said,
you wanted to do something extra like,
I need to populate this thing first.
Or I want to get rid of the id,
if you wanted to do something
with the properties on it.
But at the end of the day,
the params middleware already found it.
So we're just returning what I found,
so this just passes straight through.
The getAll, that takes some model,
so imagine what we have to do here.
We have to find every single thing
on this model, no parameters passed.
And then the findByParam,
takes a model and then a id.
So you can imagine what
it needs to do with that.
>> Scott Moss: So once you get all those,
you should go to hit your test, and
they should all pass.
>> Scott Moss: So
I'm wanna leave this up right here.
Basically, your goal is to
get all the tests to pass.
After this exercise,
all your tests should be passing.
So follow the test, read the test,
you're gonna be working with these five
functions right here, or six,
I'm sorry, six functions.
And all your tests should be passing.